Life must go on even after a big heartache So Pro Verb’s ex-wife, Onalerona, married her businessman lover this week. Shwa is still devastated that a love so pure and true was just smoke and mirrors. We feel your pain boetie – but please refrain from dating lookalikes, okay?  Shame on you… bloody moegoes Shwa attended the International African Festival launch in Pretoria on Tuesday and wow, the representatives from Tshwane municipality just did not come through, what an embarrassment to the municipality and everyone who was there to meet their municipality
officials.  Or as the rumours have it, were they trying to avoid questions on why they wouldn’t fund the festival estimated to cost R10-million?  Shwa was consoled by the presence of Harrison Crump. This hottie of a DJ will hang around SA until the Festive Alive Festival, which is sure gonna be lit.  Late comer Dr Malinga, how dare you miss your own performance and still come to the event? The country is busy trying to fix the notion behind African time, jump in. It’s an old stunt. Hello! Can somebody tell Mthunzi, S-Tone, Kenzo, Claudio and Sino Msolo to stop acting like a high school hip hop crew – stuck together like super glue – whatever happened to individuality? YFM toasts to youth station’s staying power  YFM celebrated its 23rd birthday party at the Sun Arena in Pretoria last week, with the who’s who in youth culture radio making their appearance. The party was filled with less than 10 000 young skrr skrr and amapiano fans witnessing the likes of Cassper Nyovest, Boity, AKA and DBN Gogo perform.  Word on the street is that AKA has gone diamond status with the singles, Dreamwork and One Time. A first for a South African hip-hop artist. Either Mzansi has gone nuts, or yall enjoy his auto tune mumbling nonsensical rubbish.  Resident DJ, Khutso Theledi, wore some hip-hop inspired outfit that was rather questionable. Call me old-fashioned but the combos were not communicating. Shwa was shocked to see Whats dat! rapper, Boity Thulo – who is forever jetting off somewhere. SHWASHWI