Mosimane, Shakoane cross swords again Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane and his nemesis, supporter mobilisation manager Alex Shakoane, are allegedly at each other’s throats after “Gold Fingers” leaked internal confidential club information. The leaks are considered a tactical attempt by Shakoane to fan the anti-Mosimane names and to also confirm that the coach is raffled and paranoid following the team’s recent poor performances. The two have been involved in a cat-and-mouse battle, with Shakoane considered the mastermind of physical attacks on the coach by fans. To add fuel to the fire, Shakoane orchestrated the employment of Cedric Moela as Mamelodi Sundowns national supporters’ coordinator, who last year led the “Pitso-Must-Go” campaign which saw fans throw alcohol in Mosimane’s face. Mosimane has complained to management about Shakoane’s behaviour. He asked management to reprimand Shakoane for his gave. Shakoane allegedly apologised for his misconduct. Sundowns general manager Yogesh Singh confirmed that Shakoane had leaked Mosimane’s and the technical team’s internal confidential conversation to external people. Despite the seriousness of the offence, no action will be taken against Shakoane as Singh dismissed as “not factual” the claim that Mosimane was livid about the former club spokesperson’s embarrassing blooper. “That’s not factual, I deal with factual things,” he said.  But Shakoane admitted that he met Mosimane to discuss his faux pas. “The matter was discussed by me and the coach and was resolved,” he said. But a Sundowns official, who spoke to us on condition of anonymity, said Mosimane was upset with Shakoane’s behaviour. “The coach is of the view that this man must face the music for his action. It would be unfortunate if no action is taken against him. How do you leak such sensitive club information to the outside world and journalists?” he asked. In leaked WhatsApp conversations seen by Sunday World, Mosimane appears to be paranoid that his enemies at the club, who wanted him out, will revive their campaign to oust him following the club’s recent lackadaisical performance. The club lost 2-0 to Kaizer Chiefs and 3-2 against Golden Arrows in the league matches. Mosimane seems to plead for solidarity. “We must go win the Telkom Cup, Nedbank Cup, Champions League and win the PSL on the last game of the league game. Make history! Football is just testing our character as the club, and this phase we are currently facing always happens every year. I have been here and we succeeded [in] winning trophies. Stay together at this time, this is [the] time for us to see who is with us, just watch the behavior of the usual suspects and they will easily emerge as always and predicted,” reads the message which Shakoane forwarded to the external people. In the same message Mosimane seems worried that his enemies will hold meetings to dislodge him from his plum job. “There will [be] lots of questions now, probably unnecessary meetings or requests. It’s okay, stay together. I wonder what Pep Guardiola is going through,” reads another message which Shakoane forwarded to the unintended recipients. In another message, Mosimane asks his disciples not to succumb to the negativity and work hard to bring results. This is not the first dramatic episode between Mosimane and Shakoane. Sunday World reported in July that Mosimane was not happy with Shakoane who led  campaign to employ Moela at the club despite the public humiliation he subjected the coach to through the Pitso Must Go campaign. By Ngwako Malatji
ngwakom@sundayworld.co.za