Chief whip in Vhembe removed from his position A Limpopo ANC leader and Road Agency Limpopo (RAL) board member who was this week implicated in a sex orgy video has been removed
from his position as the ANC chief whip for Collins Chabane municipality by the ANC Vhembe regional executive committee. Sunday World can reveal that ANC Vhembe deputy spokesperson Miyelani “Mabanana” Chauke was informed of the decision by Vhembe regional chairperson Tshitereke Matibe this week, just days after his alleged sexual escapades were leaked to members of the ANC in the province. However, Chauke has distanced himself from the sex orgy tape, arguing that it was not him in the porn video. Despite the denial, ANC Vhembe regional secretary Anderson Mudunungu has confirmed that Chauke will be interrogated robustly about the sex tape by the region’s officials during its meeting tomorrow. Mudunungu confirmed that Chauke was informed of his removal as chief whip by the chairperson, who was mandated to deal with the matter by the ANC’s regional executive committee. “Yes, the decision has been made, and we are finalising matters with him. The matter will be concluded in few days,” said Mudunungu. However, the regional leader said while the party was concerned about the sex tape featuring Chauke, the decision to remove him from his position preceded the emergence of the purported sex orgy video. “The meeting of the officials is going to engage him very robustly about the sex tape. He must clear himself from this matter,” said Mudunungu while also stating that the regional leadership was not saying it was him in the video. He said the decision to remove Chauke was taken in June to address gender parity in the political management team of the municipality but
was delayed due to consultation with the provincial leaders of the ANC. Asked why the ANC has opted to remove him and not the speaker, who is also male, Mudunungu said the party had to consider the geographical representation of leaders in the municipality, and as such could not remove the speaker, who comes from the sensitive area
of Vuwani, which was earlier resisting to be incorporated into the municipality. But ANC leaders close to the process revealed Chauke was an easy target as he was implicated in the VBS scandal. The sex tape also became a political football used by the regional leaders to solve their headache. Sunday World has seen the 17 seconds of the sex tape, and it purportedly shows Chauke humping and pounding a dreadlocked lady while his friend records the deed. The other segment of the video shows the other man having sex while Chauke takes the video. At some point in the video, a person considered to be Chauke tried to hide his face from the camera, which appears to be that of a phone Chauke has distanced himself from the video. By Aubrey Mothombeni
mothombenia@sundayworld.co.za