Award-winning musician, Samthing Soweto’s debut album, Isphithiphithi has bagged Platinum sales on his first amapiano project Real name Samkelo Mdolomba recently announced that he had sold over 20,000 copies for his popular single Akulaleki in less than a month and over 40 000 album copies in less than two months. In the music industry that means he has reached both gold and platinum status in less than two months.   #Akulaleki sold #gold in less then a month and #platinum in less then 2months. Thank you  @djmaphorisa , @official_kabzadesmall , @mas_musiq thank you sirs. A post shared by  Samthing Soweto (@samthingsoweto) on Nov 8, 2019 at 11:32am PST  Isphithiphithi, meaning the crowded or chaotic place, is Samthing Soweto’s labour of love released on September 20. To celebrate and promote the successes of the Afropop and amapiano singer, Platoon- London and SA based artist services company, merged their worlds of art and music by facilitating the creation of a street art mural. Watch the making of the mural: https://youtu.be/k8cPd9Cst7Y The album cover was resized by local street artist Dbongz. According to Samthing Soweto, his album artwork which featured him dressed in MaXhosa Africa and designed by Tony Mokhononoana – which showcased  a culturally rich and colourful proudly South African artist. “Being presented the opportunity to paint a mural of Samthing Soweto was a great highlight for me. The aim of the design for the Mural artwork was for it to be in the same spirit as the album art, for it to be one with the music. I wanted it to be such that when people see it, they could relate it to the character of Samthing Soweto and the music that he makes,” said Dbongz. The visual artist said the process of making the mural was a beautiful and smooth one.  “Meeting Samthing Soweto at the beginning of it and getting to attend his album launch also played a huge part in the success of the project, as I got to experience the man behind the music and also the music by the man. So, I really got to be in touch with Isphithiphithi and depicting it in the Mural was pure fun and joy and I can only hope that it comes across as such to everyone who gets to see it,” said Dbongz. The mural can be viewed by the public in Joburg on Fox Street in Maboneng until Friday, 22 November 2019. By Nokuthula Zwane