Black Motion right on time with single Twelve-time platinum-selling duo Black Motion are on a roll. They launched their single, Everything, which features MoT and Afrotraction, at The Royale in
Craighall, Joburg. A little birdy whispered that one of the gents is expecting a bundle of joy soon.  There were a few familiar faces such as Brendan Praise, Aubrey Qwana, DBN GOGO and Warren Masemola, but the crowd was nowhere near breaking a sweat.  Besides the fact that the fellas were on time this time for their own event, we all had to wait for guests to arrive two-and-a half hours later.  Shwa was close to making a scene because, jerrr, Sony folk know how to delay events. Magents, 2 to 6pm should be 2 to 6pm.  Who were the guests? That answer is still unknown Never mess with a black woman’s babies  DJ Tira’s wife, Gugu Khathi, is the boss of “no nonsense”, neh. She punched her white neighbour in the face this week. Not that Shwa condones violence – but you can’t be bullying black kids and getting away with some “blacks are loud” twak. Burna Boy must apologise or feel burn  While South Africans are against Nigerian rapper Burna Boy coming to perform at the Africa Unite Concert, EFF leader Julius Malema has swooped in to defend him and Tweeps are not so impressed with Juju’s comment. Shwa supports you, Juju, but Burna Boy will feel the burn if he doesn’t apologise for threatening our AKA. Shai learns the hard way life is no soapie  It’s tragic what’s happened to Patrick Shai, being shot 11 times with rubber bullets by police during a community protest in Dobsonville this week. But this madala needs to learn life is not a soapie. He can’t be involving himself in other people’s business like he does as Jacob on 7de Laan. DOJO CAT truly her father’s child  Not sure what rock Shwa was under, but since discovering rapper DOJO CAT, wannabes like Moonchild and Nadia Nakai can go sleep. The American
musician has the same tjatjarag nature her father, Dumisani Dlamini, had in Yizo Yizo and Isibaya. Pity the “absent father” vibes. She claims she has
never met Dumisane.  “He’s just all up in the comments sections of my Instagram.” But like her latest single, featuring Tyga, she too is Juicy. Her booty-shaking video saw her trending on social media in August with 1.3 million views on YouTube within 12 hours of its release. Her peach trumps Cardi B and Nicki Minaj. And this week she was crowned the best rapper around by respected US radio star Ebro Darden. Keep rocking Amalaratna Zandile Dlamini. Kwesta pulls global stars  Kwesta has found a new best friend in US artist Rich Homie Quan who teamed up with him to make the single, Run It Up. The music video dropped on last week Friday. Shwa is loving the level of international steez Kwesta has to attract these international rappers. First it was Wale now Rich Homie Quan. Woza nazo mfo. Spirit! Give the woman space, please  Thabo Rametsi couldn’t wait to jump in on that Enhle vibe, on some “queen of the day” posts this week. We see you boo, wanting to be her shoulder
to cry on. Have you ever heard of space? Umqombothi, made the Sibiya way  On the other side of town was the launch of legacy umqombothi brand King Korn. Orlando West, Soweto, came alive with the beat of the drum and a masterclass on how to make umqombothi with Aphiwe Nxusana-Mawela. The Sibiyas took over. Nelisiwe Sibiya looked top notch as she performed for the intimate crowd.  Kay Sibiya killed it with his traditional/ westernised attire. The only thing hat made things awkward was his random walks through the crowd. SHWASHWI