Missed a mark flat-out with album launch Afrotainment and Universal Music Group have officially kicked off their partnership with the launch of gqom musician Tipcee’s album. Launching it in Rosebank at the UMG headquarters was a big mistake as there was a small number of guests who actually honoured the invitation.  The only saving grace was the beautiful prayer Busiswa gave ahead of the December season and the promotion of the album. Although verrrry intimate, Shwa thought that there were a number of things wrong with this album launch: First, Tipcee wore a gown that looked like she was a gospel artist and not the gqom queen that she is. Fashion and music go hand in hand but she missed the mark.
Second, as a Durban export, chances are that the masses would have been in Durban and not Rosebank. Know your market. Third, 16 tracks. WOW, babes! 16 songs that are all gqom-ified and feature heavy.  Shwa now understands completely when you say that you grew up wanting to be famous because yerr, your music skills on this project is minimal. Last, keep it simple. If you are a dance musician, keep up the tempo. No need to have a host like Sandile GQ, breaking the vibe with his DJ Sbu wanna-be voice.  If you are about making people dance, then make them dance. Raising Mzansi’s flag  Anatii received a nomination at the Soul Train Music Awards in the US for his contribution to the Beyonce song, Brown Skin Girl, this week.
And it was no ordinary award, but the prestigious Ashford & Simpson Songwriter’s Award; flying the Mzansi flag so much higher. Pretentious traitor  Masechaba Ndlovu is a wanna- be feminist and activist. Shem! Lady Zamar poured her heart out about Sjava abusing her and lying to
her about being married. Wait, didn’t Masechaba have a thing with a married person when she was at e.tv? Anyway, Ndlovu, who forced Babes Wodumo to speak about being abused, kept mum. What kind, mama? Or has Sjava embalmed you with his stress-relieving imphepho? He claims it relieves his stress, but Shwa can guarantee you that no amount of incense will assist this matter. Chad who?  So Kelly Khumalo’s ex, Chad da Don, has since moved on with a model called Carla Poggenpoel. Guys, mara when will ya’ll stop the pretence? We all know the so-called marriage was nothing but a pretense. Shwa still doesn’t know this rapper called Chad.  Madam Bourgeois  Bridgette Radebe says the supposed affair with Botswana’s Ian Khama was nothing but political meddling. But what’s even more mesmerising was her bizarre press conference this week. In true Coco Chanel style, she rocked up in wide-brimmed hat complete with spin doctors. But a power point presentation! For what? Madam doth protest too much!  Levels guys… levels! Shwa made an appearance at the Sha Sha EP listening session at La Boqueria in Parktown on Thursday. The intimate session saw the likes of Maphorisa show up – looks like he’s under mkhulu MaThousand’s mentorship, shem.  MoGuy rocked up looking like some Skhothane of note. Well Don Dada, looks like there’s a new member in your circle. Wemaweh!!! Kabza De Small, were you high on something or is baby mama giving you some high stress levels that you are struggling to sleep at night? Shwa was so shocked with your beady red eyes.  It’s advisable to check the mirror. Mlindo The Vocalist is such a mood lifter. If all else fails, comedy will suit you well. Scarier than Guay Fawkes  What’s with Mzansi celebs celebrating Halloween? Whatever happened to that day called Guy Fawkes? Pearl Thusi dressed up like a jailbird – a sorry sight, Ayanda Thabethe trying to be Beyonce – poor effort. And Thuli Phongolo as Maleficent, well… yum! Meanwhile, Danny K was channeling the tokoloshe look. By Shwashwi