Limpopo branch turned into school Sophie Ndaba’s ex-husband, Bishop Keith Harrington of Dr Keith Harrington Ministries Centre, is embroiled in an unholy war with the Mamone tribal authority in Jane Furse, Limpopo. Harrington has alleged that the tribal authority hijacked his church’s stand and building material and equipment worth more than R400 000 and sold it to people who converted it to a pre-school. Harrington claimed this week that he bought the site from the tribal authority headman Godfrey Phoku, who is now deceased, for R2 500 in 2004. He said the church later built a four-roomed house worth R175 000, bought a steel structure worth R240 000, and spent R75 000 to erect it. According to Harrington, he then handed the Limpopo branch over to pastor Edwell Mbebe, who moved out of the site while he gathered enough money to complete the church building. He said Mbebe and church members visited the site for a cleanup in preparation for a church service on October 13 and discovered there was a break-in. He was shocked when Mbebe told him the site had been invaded and was being used as a preschool “The chain and lock at the gate were cut and the perpetrators entered the property illegally and forcefully. “The security gate of the house was cut and two doors were broken down and the perpetrators entered and stole the churchowned material. “Sand and 10 000-plus bricks that we had bought to erect a church building since we had finished the foundation were used to build on top of our foundation and around our steel structure for a pre-school building by these invaders. “They are now continuing to build,” he said. Harrington said Mbebe has since opened a case of housebreaking and theft at Jane Furse police station. Limpopo police spokesperson Motlafela Mojapelo confirmed a case had been opened. “The police in Jane Furse are investigating a case of burglary.” The property alleged to be taken included a generator, tent, glass pulpit, keyboard, speakers and electric cables, he said. The tribal authority did not respond to requests for comment. By Boitumelo Kgobotlo
kgobotlob@sundayworld.co.za 