Dr Josh Matambo is a specialist obstetrician and gynaecologist offering the Femilift at the Linksfield Hospital Specialists Centre. Femilift is a non-surgical, quick and safe solution for various common feminine issues, such as Stress Urinary Incontinence (SUI), vaginal laxity, dryness, and recurring infections. He says it's an easy and minimally invasive treatment that can solve numerous feminine issues, fast. But what is physically done to the vagina and how does it help. Also, what is the recovery time? He says because every woman is different, there's nothing like a normal labia. "Some women experience discomfort or painful friction against their undergarments and even pain during intercourse as a result of their natural shape. Labiaplasty is a surgical procedure which involves the resizing and/or reshaping of the labia minora. In labiaplasty, excess skin is removed from the labia minora. "This procedure helps to address these issues by reshaping the labia as required. With age, the labia majora become thin and appear deflated. The aim of the procedure is to restore the youthful fullness of the labia majora," says Matambo. The femilift can include labial augmentation and clitoral hoodectomy. "Labial augmentation is done by injecting fillers or fat transfer into the labia majora. This can be done at the same time as vaginal tightening or labiaplasty. Labiaplasty as well as Clitoral Hoodectomy are very popular and are both performed with the FemiLift laser. A hygienic probe is inserted into the vagina, targeting the designated area with a laser. "Optimum results are usually achieved after completing the course of three therapy sessions. One should be able to resume your normal activities right after the treatment. There is no downtime," Matambo says. He explains the Femilif is a procedure which has better outcomes compared to radio frequency procedures. "I believe every woman deserves to enjoy her feminine wellness to the fullest. Femilift laser can do this. Steaming seems not to be just for the face. Since Chrissy Teigen and Kim Kardashian shared their vaginal steaming experiences recently, the treatment has gained popularity. But as Anisha Patel, director of Midori Eco Salon, explains - vaginal steaming is an ancient tradition dating back hundreds of years. "It was invented by the Egyptians to aid in healing and balancing the vaginal area, uterus, etc. A very effective treatment for men and women. The procedure requires up to 20 different herbs. All herbs are organic and have homeopathic properties, for example, for infertility, balancing thyroid glands." She proudly proclaims that she is the original inventor and qualified service provider of the treatment locally. Patel, whose Midori spa is located in Benmore, Johannesburg, says she studied and trained over a period of 12 years and has had phenomenal results, healing women with various problems from infertility to lupus and cancer. "Evidence of clients are followed up and recorded. We are interacting with the medical board in order to achieve medical approval. For now, unfortunately, natural treatments are difficult to get medically approved. " My motivation was my own experience with ovarian cancer which was in the fourth stage, I cured this cancer over a period of six months with this treatment and other organic treatments...," she says. In her V bar, the treatment is carried out discreetly in a private cubicle on a special vagi chair designed for steam infused with special herbs to reach the vaginal area. The area is steamed carefully for an hour. At the end of the treatment, either a neck or a shoulder massage is provided to relax the client.