"The SABC is deliberately creating an impression that there was corruption associated with the Nyusi'Volume campaign, they ignore the facts no matter how much they are explained. I must say that I have also not seen the audit report. Nyusi'Volume was never a revenue generating series of events but an audience interactive platform. Its primary objective was to grow audiences and not revenue. The sales department was aware of this as they signed on the business plans for these events. SABC never funded these events, instead sponsorship was sought to stage the events not to fund the SABC, and therefore, no monies would be paid to the SABC. I don't know anything about the R30m referred to in your statement but the average sponsorship value per event was around R900,000 which most people who know the cost of staging an event of the magnitude of the Nyusi'Volume would know this amount is not enough. The issue regarding Rev Mpanza was discussed with auditors and evidence was provided to that effect. All priests who are contracted to provide sermons for Ukhozi FM receive the stipend. This is standard across SABC Radio. The findings in this allegation are, therefore, a fabrication. It is true that Intswenga Trading is my wife's company which supplies branded bottled water. But it's an assumption that branded water used for Nyusi'Volume was supplied by Intswenga Trading. I resigned because I could no longer endure the unbearable working conditions and [fear] for my safety and that of my family. Neo Momodu of the SABC said: An internal forensic investigation was conducted at the KZN offices and evidence of wrongdoing was uncovered against the then acting provincial general manager, who resigned from the SABC. Due to the sensitivity of the matters uncovered and the responsibility that the SABC has, careful consideration is being given to all the findings. Judy Magwaza of JMT confirmed receipt of at least R20 million on behalf of Ukhozi FM but she said she sourced most it as she has agreements with municipalities. She said other funds were deposited directly into SABC accounts. "All the funds deposited into the company were accounted for. I only got, at times 7 percent of my fee and sometimes there was nothing to pay me. She said it was news to her that Mpanza's wife's company supplied the water bottles. She denied that there was no agreement between JMT and Ukhozi FM stating that everything was above board. Arts department confirms R1.5m payment to JMT KwaZulu-Natal department of arts and culture spokesperson Mack Makhathini confirmed it paid JMT R1.5m as part of their sponsorship agreement with Ukhozi FM. "Yes, we did pay JMT which was linked to Ukhozi FM's Nyus'ivolume, as JMT submitted the proposal. We had a memorandum of agreement with JMT for the value of R1.5m," said Makhathini. He also confirmed that the department received a request from the SABC investigators, adding that the department co-operated with them. Harry Gwala district municipality spokesperson Ndabezitha Tenza said: "It is true that we partnered with Ukhozi FM in the aforementioned event. "We sponsored the event as per their request. In 2014, we paid an amount of R800,000, R870,000 in 2015, R870,000 in 2016, R912,000 in 2017 and R1m last year," Tenza said. "We paid our sponsorship to Judy Magwaza Trading as per the request from Ukhozi FM." Tenza also confirmed they were approached by SABC investigators with a request for information. Ntobeko Ngcobo, spokesperson of Msunduzi local municipality also confirmed that they had a sponsorship deal with Ukhozi FM. "The municipality did not receive information requests from the SABC with regards to the sponsorship. SABC is welcome to engage the municipality through the office of the city manager," Ngcobo said.