Golfer Felicity Shiba shares her incredible journey through golf, from her greatest achievements to equality in the sport. Q: How and why did you start playing golf? What do you love about it? A: I've always wanted to play golf, even when I was growing up. I just never got the chance to because I was already playing other sports. So when I was 30, living in Zimbabwe with lots of time on my hands, it seemed like the perfect time to start. Best decision ever! I love how it connects you to a vast number of people you wouldn't normally interact with. It's a great way to make friends. Q: What are your top two favourite golf courses. A: So far I'd say Royal Joburg and Royal Harare. Q: You are also a social media influencer, a golf writer and a YouTuber. When did you start This Girl's Golf Diary and why did you begin vlogging? A: I started the diary almost two years ago. I was having so much fun playing in ProAms and had really great golf days, meeting amazing pros and I really wanted to share that with people and encourage more women to take up the sport. Additionally, [the aim was] to try and help get rid of the stigma that golf has for being an elitist and expensive sport. Q: You are also a mother and a fashion designer. How do you juggle all of this? A: I'm pretty tired all the time. My mommy duties are limited because the kids live in the US and Jakarta. Q: Your writing is also on the latest Travel Ideas Magazine; the write-up is great! Have you always had an interest in writing? A: I've always had an interest in writing, it was always my strength in high school and college. I've written for travel magazine Sawubona too. Q: What has been your greatest achievement in golf? A: When I started playing in Zim, I got to play every week, sometimes three or four times a week and I got pretty good. As a result of this, I played for my club's silver division and was awarded Mashonaland's most improved golfer during my first six months into it. In 2016 my fourball won the Tshwane Open ProAm. For that reason, I'd say those are my biggest highlights so far. Q: What are your thoughts about female participation in golf? A: When I started golf, there was already quite a number of ladies playing but not enough black ladies participating. Now there are a number of golf groups of amateur ladies who are well organised, and the game has grown spectacularly. Q: Why is participation in golf among women low? Is it due to there being a lack of female golfing role models? Who is your role model? A: I think there are plenty of female role models, maybe not enough black role models. However, that is changing with the likes of Nobuhle Dlamini coming into her own and winning tournaments. I grew up watching Annika Sorenstam, she was the one that made me want to play the sport. Q: Do you believe that equality in golf is improving? How do you think golf can be introduced to more females? A: I'm not sure about equality but it is definitely changing. There's still a long way to equality in sponsorship and prize money for female pros, especially in South Africa, the ladies don't earn half of what the men make and get a fraction of the sponsorships. Q: If you could give advice to any young female golfers, what would it be? A: Golf is a long-haul sport. It takes an incredible amount of discipline, dedication and passion. People will play for 20 years and barely make it and then one day, boom! A win happens. Twenty years of dedication all of a sudden becomes an overnight success. - This article is courtesy of golfscape.com