The entertainment industry is reeling in shock after the senseless death of Matwetwe movie lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana, was stabbed to death over a cellphone in Pretoria on Friday night. It is believed Khwinana, 25, was attending the screening of a movie at a cinema at Sterland Mall in Sunnyside where he was attacked by an unknown suspect who robbed him of his phone. Tebatso Mashishi, the co-star of the locally produced movie, told Sunday World that his heart was broken as he was utterly devastated by the news. "What happened is bad and I can't talk about it now. I'm not in the right space to comment. I am at his flat and it is breaking my heart. I don't want to say anything now, please give me a chance," said Mashishi. Sighing deeply, Mashishi said a number of people had converged on to Khwinana's flat to pay their tributes. Gauteng police confirmed the incident. Provincial spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said a case of murder has been opened after a 25-year-old man was stabbed and killed on Friday night. "It is alleged that the deceased and his friend were at the corner of Pretorius and Steve Biko streets when the deceased was accosted by suspects who demanded his cellphone. "As they were wrestling over the phone, the deceased was allegedly stabbed with a sharp object on the upper body. He was certified dead on the scene," read the police's statement. Masondo said no one had been arrested and investigations are continuing. DJ Black Coffee, a co-producer on the movie with comedian Kagiso Lediga, took to Twitter to send his condolences. "What a loss. How long will it take for us to realise we've a crime problem as a country? How many people must die before we do something? "Who must we trust to protect us, who must we vote for?" In his tweet, executive producer Lediga simply said: "I don't know anymore." Minister of arts and culture Nathi Mthethwa also wrote on Twitter: "We're devastated to learn of the tragic and untimely passing of celebrated actor and the pride of Soshanguve Sibusiso Khwinana, whose talent was demonstrated in his performance in the box office hit Matwetwe." Head of marketing at Ster-Kinekor Lynne Wylie said they were horrified and saddened by the death of Khwinana, whose wonderful talent was demonstrated in his performance in the Matwetwe movie. "Our sincere condolences to his friends, family. We will fully cooperate with the police and other authorities when called upon," said Wylie.