Durban-based events organiser Dogg DBN, who is one of the few people who is still willing to publicly be associated with Mampintsha in the wake of assault allegations, has waged war against radio DJs who want to "mute" Mampintsha's music. Dogg who has recently taken on the role of being Mampintsha's manager told TshisaLIVE that it was unfair for Mampintsha's music to be banned as he has not been found guilty of assault by a court of law and other international stars such as Chris Brown have not been banned from airwaves. Dogg told TshisaLIVE that the talk of boycotts has left Mampintsha "hurt". "Mampintsha is hurt about the whole thing it's just that he isn't allowed to comment to the media or public about this," Dogg said. Dogg explained on his Insta that DJs need to remember that they don't own radio stations and therefore have no right to just "ban" artists willy-nilly. Dogg's comments came after, DJ MC Bonde aka 'Voice Of Africa' of G98.7 FM - a Canadian based radio station - took to his Instagram to issue a statement explaining why he had taken the decision to "ban" Mampintsha and all West Ink music from all shows he's associated with but later revoked it. Bonde was initially reacting to the calls on social media asking all mainstream media and fans to boycott Mampintsha and his music after the video in which he slapped Babes Wodumo several times went viral in March. Dogg said that while he doesn't condone women abuse or gender-based violence in any way, he didn't want people to treat Mampintsha like he was convicted already. "I just want things to be done fairly. Mampintsha must be treated like all others who make mistakes. Plus I am his manager I have to look out for him as a colleague, friend, and manager." Dogg used US singer Chris Brown, who despite having assaulted his then-girlfriend Rihanna, has received airplay on various platforms across the world. "Chris Brown had a similar situation but did the world boycott him? No. So they should do the same to Mampintsha - no special favors for overseas artists because they all serve the same purpose in public as celebrities and artists." As far as Dogg is concerned, if Mampintsha is boycotted "a lot of people will suffer producers, songwriters, instrumentalists, backup vocalists, etc. so we should find a better way to punish him." Mampintsha was arrested on charges of assault and was released on R2,000 bail. He laid a counter charge of assault against Babes. Babes has largely remained silent on the assault allegations. Read Dogg's lengthy Instagram post  after a conversation with MC Monde.