Best couples of 2019 AKA and Zinhle are the epitome of drinking water and minding your business. The pair rekindled their love, giving all who disapproved of AKA’s cheating ways the middle finger. But Shwa admits your cute little family is a win. Then there’s the force that’s Connie and Shona Ferguson, who are still like young lovers – #couplegoals.   He held me, as I held the sun in my hand. @ferguson_films A post shared by  Connie Ferguson (@connie_ferguson) on Dec 21, 2019 at 10:46am PST  But the winners of this category are undoubtedly Caiphus Semenya and Letta Mbulu – besotted still after 54 years of marriage.  Babe of the year  Faith Nketsi’s rhymes may be whack, but Buhle Samuels has some stiff competition. If Coca-Cola ever needed a mould it would be Nketsi. Hot for days. Jokers of the year Penny Lebyane and Dineo Moeketsi, who prayed for Sunday World to shut down. We are still here, suckers! The one who laughs last, neh.   G'night… A post shared by  Dineo Langa (@dineomoeketsi) on Nov 25, 2019 at 12:23pm PST  Socialite of the year Lerato Sengadi – for someone who claims to have been mourning you sure were a busy bee. Demons keeping you up at night? Hunk of the year The Queen’s Thabiso, played by Joe Kazadi. With his 12 pack making the women drool for days. Dripping with sweet chocolate melanin – shwa’s wish for 2020 is to have not twins, but triplets carrying your genes. Wow Boetie!   Sometimes you just gotta observe and smile  Although you know the truth. A post shared by  Joe Kazadi (@king_kazadi) on Oct 10, 2019 at 6:39am PDT  Irritant of the year Ntsiki Mazwai! Yoh yoh, Ntsiki. If negative was a person, you would be the face. She has the power to frown upon every positive aspect of Mzansi. Suffering from pull-me-down syndrome. Wena, just find a man to sortout your frustrations.  Hater of the year Bonnie Mbuli has no peace. Expecting everyone to bow own cos she’s dark-skinned and beautiful, but not recognised. Uyaqina maan. It’s not Pearl, Sho Madjozi or anyone’s fault that the rest of the world fails to see your “talent”. Clown of the  year Hlaudi Motsoeneng who had the audacity to run for presidency. The former SABC COO, clueless as hell, launched The African Content Movement Party and managed less than 5 000 votes – even SRC elections fair better. We hope his CD sales sold better. By SHWASHWI