The relationship of recording house music superstar Heavy K has collapsed under the heavy load of marital problems.Heavy K and the mother of his two kids Ntombi Nguse have parted ways following a series of unresolved issues which rendered their union “toxic”. Their break up was announced by Nguse in a statement she posted on her Instagram page on Saturday morning. “I would like to publicly confirm that Mkhulu “Heavy K” Siqula and I have decided to go our separate ways. We fell deeply in love with each other and we always will have love and respect for each other, as we share special bond together through our kids. However, once a relationship becomes something toxic and starts taking away from the person that you are, then its time to let it go,” reads the statement. Nguse further said in the statement that they tried in vain to resolve their problems but eventually called it quits after accepting that their relationship was broken beyond repair. “I didnt like the person I was becoming in that relationship, neither did I like who my partner had become. We both wronged each other in ways that can never be repaired,” she said. Attempts to solicit comments from Heavy K drew a blank. Read the full statement below   OFFICIAL STATEMENT : To my beloved followers, before the rumours start spewing out of control, I would like to publicly confirm that Mkhululi 'Heavy K' Siqula and I have decided to go our seperate ways. We fell deeply in love with each other and we always will have love and respect for each other, as we share a special bond together through our kids. However, once a relationship becomes something toxic and starts taking away from the person that you are, then it's time to let it go. I didn't like the person I was becoming in that relationship, neither did I like who my partner had become. We both wronged each other in ways that can never be repaired. We managed to put up a front for the public eye, but behind closed doors we had absolutely no regard for each other. We tried to fix it, but there's just certain things that cannot be fixed once they're broken. What was once a loving relationship had become a cold place I could no longer call home. I, eventually decided I wanted out, and in as much it was one of the hardest decisions I've ever had to make, I think it's what's best for my kids and I right now, and I'd also like to ask that their privacy please be respected during this difficult time. A failed relationship might make one feel like a failure, but eventually you find grace in the idea that life goes on.  We move forward with love and a commitment to co-parenting our children and hopefully one day, we'll be able to form a friendship for their sake. Thank you for your continued support and love. God bless you all. A post shared by  NTOMBI NGUSE (@ntombi_music) on Dec 27, 2019 at 2:27am PST  By Ngwako Malatji