Da L.E.S, HHP and Skwatta Kamp inducted as South African Hip-Hop pioneers Rapper and producer Da L.E.S had his name engraved  on the prestigious Hennessey Wall of Fame this week. Da L.E.S, together with hip-hop group Jozi, were instrumental in changing the sonic face of South African hip-hop. They blended crunk with South African samples as well as reimagined a new image of rappers. These game changers broke boundaries and boldly pushed the limits of their own potential to pioneer the culture. Hennessy cognac unveiled their Wall of Fame at the first ever South African Hip Hop Museum in Newtown, Johannesburg, in collaboration with Osmic Menoe.  The wall of fame recognizes the game changers in the genre and who have left their mark in the industry. HHP’s wife Lerato Sengadi accepted Jabba’s  award on his behalf and said that the ‘bitter sweet moments’ kept her going. HHP whose real name is Jabulani Tsambo died after he commit suicide a year ago. “Last night (Thursday) my husband was inducted into the South African Hip Hop Museum “Hall of Fame”. These kind of moments are always bitter sweet because I wish with every fiber of my being that he was here to receive his own accolades, that he worked so hard for,   Last night my husband was inducted into the South African Hip Hop Museum “Hall of Fame”. These kind of moments are always bitter sweet because I wish with every fiber of my being that he was here to receive his own accolades, that he worked so hard for. I can’t even hide the sadness in my eyes. But I am also SO proud of my Motho. Ke Bosso for real! He continues to inspire me to be great and fearless every single day! Cheers to another first Motho waka. Another first of many more firsts to come. You definitely ain’t done yet… I’ma make sure of that! “Hip Hop you the love of my life…” – The Roots • • • Congratulations to all the other recipients.  Like Biggie said “You never thought that hip-hop would take it this far…”  • • • : @kagisoclegotlo / @9th_block_productions A post shared by  Lerato Sengadi (@leratolicious1) on Dec 6, 2019 at 12:11am PST  “I can’t even hide the sadness in my eyes. But I am also SO proud of my Motho. Ke Bosso for real! He continues to inspire me to be great and fearless every single day! Cheers to another first Motho waka. Another first of many more firsts to come. You definitely ain’t done yet… I’ma make sure of that! “Hip Hop you the love of my life…” – The Roots,” she wrote on instagram. Skwatta Kamp consisting of members Infa, Nish, Shugasmakx, the late Flabba, Nemza, Slikour and Bozza also made an appearance to accept the accolade.   As’bonge…. To God, everybody that’s supported in anyway and every single soul that has given of their time and service along the way. . S/O to @sahiphopmuseum for documenting our history for the kids. The story continues… @skwattakampofficial @hennessy #WallOfFame. A post shared by  SMEGA!! (@shugasmakx) on Dec 7, 2019 at 12:22am PST  By Nokuthula Zwane