The festive season is upon us with loads of exhilarating festivals not to be missed – and since there’s nothing much to watch on screens following load shedding, Boitumelo Kgobotlo gives us the low-down on what’s hip and happening cos Ke Dezemba! The third annual Afropunk Festival at Constitution Hill in Johannesburg has been noted as a good experience to make new friends from different parts of the country and count down to 2020.   For the full lineup and more info on all things #AFROPUNKJoburg, please download the AFROPUNK app now! Link in bio for iOS and Android. A post shared by  AFROPUNK (@afropunk) on Dec 20, 2019 at 2:01am PST   The arts and music event gives black upcoming creatives an opportunity to showcase their work, while well-known artists also show up on stage to help celebrate Mzansi. Afropunk Joburg, the brainchild of Matthew Morgan, will see Sho Madjozi and Busiswa headline the 30th event while American musician Masego and fellow American singer Solange will perform the following day, New Year’s Eve, taking fans through to 2020. Tickets are priced at R600 general tickets for the two days or R1 100 for an advance two-day pass and R2 900 for an advance two-day VIP pass. The City of Johannesburg also hosts a New Years Eve party at the Newtown Square KwaZulu Night: KwaZulu-Natal party fans can look forward to another version of Fact Durban Rocks New Year’s Eve by their very own DJ Tira.   Have you bought your Fact Durban Rocks tickets???? Rush to Webtickets.co.za / Pick n Pay Outlets before they sell OUT! #TheBiggestNYEParty @factdurbanrocks  @starlight_picturez A post shared by  djtira (@djtira) on Dec 18, 2019 at 12:13am PST  The event has continued to put KwaZulu-Natal artists on the map as it promotes what is known to be the Durban-born sound of gqom. Distruction Boyz, Dladla  Mshunqisi, Naak Musiq, Prince Bulo, Nasty C, Sun El Musician and Tipcee will bless the event with their hit songs. #Fact18 will kick off at 6pm and close doors the next day at 6pm at People’s Park in Durban, with tickets running from R250 to R2 500. Cape Town: Lovers of relaxed moments on the beach can look forward to the Mother City’s Pancha NYE at the Grand, an intimate event at Granger Bay on December 31. The all-night soiree has Grand Africa Café is the closest restaurant to explore for ice-cold drinks and meals to enjoy while waiting for bright lights  of fireworks on the sky introducing the new year. Ibiza’s acts Anstascia and Bloem will take patrons through the year. Ticket prices for the event: R1 000 general admission and R9 000 – R15 000 for VIP admissions. VIP table for 31 people is R31 700. 