SA’s household names give up on their marriages Till death do us part was definitely not on the cards for these Mzansi celebs who  untied the knot this year.  Black Coffee and Enhle Mbali was the biggest divorce story in Mzansi this year. The two were having problems for many years, with accusations of infidelity by Nkosinathi Maphumolo (Black Coffee). But they pushed on through their trials and even denied having issues. They had a luxurious wedding ceremony two years ago, but confirmed their separation last month. Nhlanhla and TK Nciza announced their split in June after being married for 15 years.  With three children – Nkululeko, Thamsanqa and Luvuyo – Nhlanla thanked TK for being a great father. Their daughter Zinathi was killed in a car crash in 2009. Rapper and actor Zuluboy, whose name is Mxolisi Majozi, divorced his wife of five years, Andiswa Gebashe. He confirmed the news in February. Gebashe is a professional sign language interpreter for SABC3 evening news. Actress Phemelo Motene, known for her role as Khensani Moroka in Generations, saw her 16-year marriage to Mthandeni Ngcobo end. The radio presenter, who made a return to television as Adelaide Maake in The Queen, said in February that the split was amicable. Singer Lira, whose real name is Lerato Molapo, separated officially from Robin Kohl in July. The two got married in September 2009.  Robin was also her manager “Robin and I are currently living apart and are in the process of deciding the future of our marriage. We have had a long and fruitful marriage and business relationship, and have formed a strong bond that will remain, whatever the outcome of our time apart,” wrote The Voice coach on her Instagram account. Lockdown and Uzalo actress Dawn Thandeka King said the end of her marriage of 15 years to businessman Jabulani Msomi made her feel “widowed” and depressed. The couple share five children. Former Miss SA Claudia Henkel divorced her husband Orin Roesstor this year after only four years of marriage. She told a local magazine that she was having a “tough time” and that her heart was “sore”.  Henkel’s twins were 15 months old when she announced the split in April. She posted this on her social media account: “She sat quietly as she watched things around her unravel, how so many promises that were
made were broken, how if she knew how it would turn out, would she choose the same path?” Papa Penny travelled to Mozambique to deliver divorce papers to his wife Zinha. They were living apart for 19 years. This was aired on
his reality show, Papa Penny Ahee on Showmax. By Somaya Stockenstroom