It's been three years since model and influencer Sarah Langa married Jehan Mackay in fairytale style-themed (wedding) ceremonies. She maintains he is still her yin to her yang. "Although we were already living together when we were engaged, the dynamics of marriage are different. It does come with challenges of living together. Now I've had to figure out how to sleep through his snoring. But he is still my yin to my yang. And I still find him extremely attractive. "I have to pinch myself sometimes because I still can't believe he is all mine," she says. On Valentine's Day she wrote a heartfelt post on Instagram paying tribute to their love: "For the first time in my whole life I found a home for my heart... Nothing else matters. My greatest teacher. My no1 supporter. "I love you. Happy Valentine's Day." Langa says never in a million years did she envision she would be with someone of Mackay's calibre. Mackay is CEO of one of South Africa's largest technology companies. "I pictured him with someone like Rihanna." There is an 11-year age difference between the couple. Langa turns 26 later this month. But she says even though it bothered her at first, there is no better match for her. "When I first learnt [of] his age, I thought he is quite old. I never considered dating him for a while. But as I got to know him, I saw that he is quite young at heart. "At times I had to remind myself he is older than me, because I am an old soul and he is really energetic and full of life. We complimented each other in that regard." But how did the two meet? "The first thing that attracted me to Jehan was that he was an introvert. A close family friend introduced us and I was completely smitten by his good looks. I've never been into outgoing guys. I always liked my guys quiet and reserved. The first time I properly interacted with him, I saw that behind all that silence and shyness he was actually smart and had an attractive personality too. I could have conversations that I never had with anyone else. He was able to relate to me on so many different levels." She says as time went by, she knew he was the one meant for her. "He understood me, we were in equilibrium, and [we] really got to enjoy each other's company. When it came to my life plans, I always asked [for] his advice. That was a sign he was meant for me." She says Mackay was quite shocked to learn (of) her real age, because she looks older than she is. "I always looked older than what I am. When I was 18, I was already on my fourth job. I had to grow up fast as a child. I had a lot of experience and I was mature. He was surprised that I am still that young. But he did help me grow in areas where I was lacking in maturity." With Langa having a Swati, Zulu and Christian upbringing, she says it was quite a learning curve marrying Mackay, who was from Kimberley and grew up within the Muslim faith. She says they embraced each other's heritage and were happy to learn about their differences. "We had a Nikah [Islamic marriage] as well as a lobola ceremony," she adds. For each ceremony she wore several designer gowns. Her Swati attire was by South African couturier Tuelo Nguyuza and her two couture dresses, a red crimson number as well as her white-wedding gowns, were by Gert-Johan Coetzee. In December 2016, she officially exchanged vows with Mackay and celebrated the reception at the exquisite Munro Hotel in a Marble-themed extravaganza.