Deputy speaker of the Limpopo legislature and ANC provincial executive committee member Lehlohonolo Masoga allegedly assaulted a local DJ during the party's election rally in Tzaneen last week. Masoga is accused of punching renowned Limpopo Khelobedu artist Khashane "DJ Leseilane" Leseilane at the party's rally in Bolobedu on Saturday last week, after accusing him of disrespecting him. Leseilane opened a case of assault against Masoga at Belevia satellite police station on Wednesday and the case was transferred to Kgapane police station for investigation. Speaking to Sunday World, Leseilane, who is also an ANC member, alleged that Masoga, a former MEC for human settlement, corporate governance and traditional affairs, beat him up like an unwanted stepchild. He said Masoga would have probably inflicted more harm on him had it not been for ANC provincial organiser and former Mopani mayor Joshua Matlou's intervention. Relating the ordeal, Leseilane said he joined Masoga and Limpopo ANC convener Thoko Didiza in Tzaneen where they did a door-to-door campaign about a fortnight ago. He said one of the party members told him that Masoga was looking for his contact details. "Unfortunately Masoga had already left when I got the information that he was looking for me. I then asked one of the ANC members to give me his contact details which he did," said Leseilane. The muso said he later phoned Masoga but the EFF president Julius Malema's nemesis rejected his call. "I then sent him a text message and identified myself but he never phoned me back nor responded to my text messages," he said. The singer said he met Masoga at Mopani ANC regional election rally at the Lebaka stadium on Saturday and asked him why he didn't return his call. "He got angry and accused me of being rude to him. In a bid to defuse the tension, I walked away from him and went to stand backstage with Joshua Matlou and other members of the party. But he followed me and accused me of not talking to him in civil tones. "He started punching me all over my body while accusing me of disrespecting him. Matlou rescued me by holding and separating him from me." Leseilane said that Masoga later sent two local ANC officials to come and apologise on his behalf. "They promised to set up a meeting so we can talk and resolve this matter, but they never did. They were just playing games or trying to trick me into not opening a case against him. "This man had no right to beat me up like that. He is a leader and should lead by example, so I want the law to take its course," he said. Matlou couldn't be reached for comment at the time of going to press. Limpopo Police spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed that Leseilane opened a case of assault against Masoga and said investigations were underway. Masoga had not responded to questions at the time of going to print.