Biopic brings back old memories Actress and choreographer Khabonina Qubeka plays the role of Bongi in the highly anticipated Dream: Lebo Mathosa Story biopic. Qubeka said the part of the Boom Shaka lead singer’s lover, Sibongile Ngubane, was a difficult one to bring to life. According to Qubeka, she
had not seen Ngubane in 10 years, and meeting each other on the set of the biopic brought all kinds of memories. “It was a little bit hard to play her, especially when she was watching me, because when I was working with Lebo, Sibongile was there and she was the choreographer and we spent time with her. “To play her character, I had to take a piece of her in order to get her story across,” she said. Qubeka described Ngubane’s personality as very private, which is why the seven-year relationship with Mathosa was never really seen. “She was quite chuffed that I was playing her character, also because she knows me from dancing with Lebo. She has a sense of my professionalism,” said- Qubeka. “One must understands her personality.” This week would be 13 years since Mathosa’s tragic passing in 2006 and to commemorate her contribution to the South African music industry, BET Africa launched the first biopic series in her honour. At the launch, Ngubane confirmed that she had met the late singer in 1999 when she was shooting her It’s about time music video. “We became friends and we became something else and later business partners. I danced with her and not for her. She was the kind of artist
that you did have to dance for but she danced with you,” said Ngubane.  She explained that Mathosa lived her truth throughout her life, both in and outside of the limelight. “She lived a full life and she loved people.” The role of Mathosa is played by KB and Bahumi Madisakwane, who have had their fair share of public criticism regarding their fit. Monde Twala, vice-president for youth, music and BET at Viacom International Media Networks Africa, said the biopic was unique to the continent for BET Africa and follows the success of internationally produced biopics. “This biopic is a celebration of black excellence and depicts intimate moments in Lebo’s journey. “ She was a pivotal force in the entertainment industry and we are honoured to have partnered with local producers and Department of Trade and Industry in telling this authentic African story, while opening up the industry for fresh young talent,” said Twala. By Nokuthula Zwane
zwanen@sundayworld.co.za